---
description: Feb 2024
---

# v4.4.0

{% hint style="info" %}
We strongly advise that all [Stream Host](v4.4.0.md#stream-hosts) installations are upgraded to this version and that the feature flag 'Enable Luigi Preview', is enabled to fully leverage the enhanced capabilities.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

### Integrations

<table><thead><tr><th width="155">Change Type</th><th width="250">Name</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>New</td><td><a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/opc-da">OPC DA Listener and Action Agent</a></td><td>Read and publish tag values to an OPC DA Server in your data stream.</td></tr><tr><td>New</td><td><a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/fixed-width-file-reader/">Fixed Width File Reader v1.0</a></td><td>Process data from fixed-width text files in your data stream.</td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/azure-iot-hub/how-to-use/release-notes">Azure IoT Hub Listener v3.06</a></td><td>Support Array Values visualization in the Live View.</td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/osisoft-pi-connector/how-to-use/release-notes">OSIsoft PI Connector v1.13</a></td><td>Added rounding support and error handling when no results are returned.</td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/azure-digital-twin/listener/release-notes#v1.08">Azure Digital Twin Listener v1.06 and v1.08</a></td><td>Query support added. Useful for splitting a model into submodels and joinging separate queries if you've reached the DTDL limit of 300 properties.  </td></tr></tbody></table>

### Common

<table><thead><tr><th width="156">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><p>We've listened to your feedback and made several usability enhancements to file keys and dashboard tags:</p><ul><li>Introduced an eye on all <a href="../how-to-guides/import-export-and-clone.md">import and export</a> functions: if you click on the file key eye, what you have typed will show up to enable you to check the typing of your file key.</li><li>Improved how multiple tags are shown on a card: the ellipsis was replaced with a horizontal scrollbar and the white space was reduced.</li><li>Global search: tags were added as an option and can be searched too.</li><li>Category Filter: your tag selection is persisted as you open and close Apps and Data Streams, so that you don't need to reapply your filter</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><p>Various application upgrades:</p><ul><li>Upgrade XMPro Notebook, Application Designer, Data Stream Designer, and Stream Hosts to .NET 8.</li><li>Enable http2 on Azure ARM deployments</li><li>Upgrade SignalR packages to latest compatible versions </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>WebSocket connection errors in some Apps in some environments.</em><br>Intermittent SignalR connection failures due to long query strings or incompatible client/server versions were resolved. </td></tr></tbody></table>

### XMPro AI and Notebook

<table><thead><tr><th width="157">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Feature</td><td>XMPro AI and Notebook are now available to deploy via an XMPro-assisted ARM template.</td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td>Upgrade the XMPro Notebook's default Python <a href="../concepts/xmpro-ai/xmpro-notebook.md#libraries">library</a> version from 3.8 to 3.10.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### App Designer

<table><thead><tr><th width="157">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Feature</td><td><p>New Blocks added:</p><ul><li><a href="../blocks/visualizations/tree-map.md">Tree Map</a> - visualize hierarchical data as well as the order of magnitude, for example, to create a quick view of high-volume situations. </li><li><a href="../blocks/visualizations/autodesk-forge-1.md">Live Feed</a> - incorporate your IP Live Feed camera into an application alongside key statistics related to the area under surveillance.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td>As highlighted in <a href="archived/v4.3.8.md#app-designer">v4.3.8</a>, we can do better for data privacy by adding more stringent authorization controls to authenticated endpoints. In this release, access and product rights were added to the final batch of endpoints: <em>low-priority</em> recommendation, application, connector, and integration endpoints. </td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><p>We've listened to your feedback and made several usability enhancements to the App Designer Canvas:</p><ul><li><a href="../concepts/application/canvas.md#block-toolbar">Block Toolbar</a>: tooltips were added to highlight the button functions.</li><li>Block Styling: advanced options - rarely used except by advanced users - were moved to a new <a href="../concepts/application/block-styling.md#advanced-styling">Advanced Styling</a> accordion to simplify your styling choices.</li><li>Block Styling: Font Style was added to <a href="../concepts/application/block-styling.md#typography">Typography</a>, adding support for italic and oblique text.</li><li><a href="../concepts/application/page-layers.md">Page Layers</a>: added a horizontal scrollbar for when there are multiple nested layers of components on a page.</li><li><a href="../concepts/application/block.md">Blocks</a> tab: show 3 tiles per row so that it is quicker to locate a Block.</li><li>Dynamic and expression block properties: added a Full Name property to the <a href="../concepts/application/block-properties.md#user-details">User Details</a> - and renamed User to Username for increased clarity.</li><li>Data Streams Connector: prefix the entity with the data source version so that you don't have to open and scroll to verify the correct version is in use.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><p>These <a href="../blocks/basic/tree-grid.md">Tree Grid</a> Block navigation and selection features were added: </p><ul><li>'Expand All Rows By Default' property, is useful when you have a small dataset.</li><li>'Allow Multiple Select' property, as per the Data Grid.</li><li>Node run-time context menu to expand and collapse its children. </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><a href="../administration/subscriptions-admin/manage-user-access.md#app-designer-rights-and-roles">ViewAppBar</a> right, added in v4.1.0, is now included in all default App Designer roles. Global admins have the option to customize the product roles for specific implementations.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Non-Admin users encountered an error ('Unable to save notification subscription changes') when</em> <a href="../concepts/recommendation/notification.md#subscribe"><em>subscribing to recommendation notifications</em></a><em>.</em><br>Non-Admin Users can now amend their Notification Settings.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td>The category filter's checkboxes no longer overlap the text.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Clicking the Site Setting</em> <a href="../how-to-guides/manage-site-settings.md#reports"><em>Report</em></a> <em>carats opens an empty blade.</em><br>Users can click on the carat or the report name to open it.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>The</em> <a href="https://xmpro.gitbook.io/azure-digital-twin-connector/"><em>Azure Digital Twin Connector</em></a><em>'s 'Query Text Area' is not maximized when the blade is maximized.</em><br>For all Connectors that utilize a Script Box in their configuration, the editable area is expanded when the configuration blade is maximized.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>A Connector was accidentally written that included credentials in an error message, which was displayed to a standard User when they encountered the error while running an App that used the Connector.</em><br>Connector error messages are available in the logs to those with appropriate access, such as administrators, and a generic error message is reported to end users.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td>Tooltips on <a href="../blocks/actions/button.md#appearance">Button</a> Blocks are now shown at runtime.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Font selection is ignored on the Data and Tree Grid Blocks at runtime.</em><br>Font Block Styling is applied to the Data Grid, Tree Grid, and Tree List at runtime. </td></tr></tbody></table>

### Data Stream Designer

<table><thead><tr><th width="157">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td><p>We've listened to your feedback and made several usability enhancements to the Data Stream Designer's <a href="../concepts/data-stream/#the-toolbox">Toolbox</a>:</p><ul><li>Collapse the Toolbox when you're not using it to increase the canvas size.</li><li>The Category header remains sticky as you scroll down so that you don't lose context and access the accordion to collapse the category.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td>The <a href="../how-to-guides/agents/building-agents.md#ipolling-agent">IPollingAgent</a> interface was changed from required to recommended with the addition of a RequiresPolling property. This gives greater flexibility as typically non-polling agents can also poll.</td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td>The <a href="../how-to-guides/agents/manage-agents.md#adding-an-agent">Adding an Agent</a> hint was reworded for clarity to 'Max file size is 100 Mb. For a bulk upload, the limit applies to the unzipped size'.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Clicking the Site Setting</em> <a href="../how-to-guides/manage-site-settings.md#reports-1"><em>Report</em></a> <em>carats opens an empty blade.</em><br>Users can click on the carat or the report name to open it.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Closing a Data Stream from My Sandbox navigates back to the landing page.</em><br>Closing a Data Stream navigates back to the previously selected category.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Subscription Manager

<table><thead><tr><th width="158">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Fix</td><td><p><em>An investigation into the progressive slow performance of SM revealed a correlation with an increasing number of memory handles. Notably, the number of handles consistently rises over time and only resets with a restart of the application process.</em> </p><p>The Subscription Manager memory leak issue has been addressed through optimized usage of the custom Identity Server ViewService.<br></p><p>If you have noticed these symptoms, monitoring of memory, handles, and page response times is essential until Subscription Manager can be upgraded to v4.3.14 to resolve the issue.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>The welcome email used the subject 'Welcome to XMPro'.</em><br>All SM email notifications implement the template's title tag and only use 'Welcome to XMPro' if none was supplied in the template.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>Users were advised their password reset had expired after they had entered a new password and clicked 'Update Password'.</em><br>Users are advised their reset password link has expired when the reset password page loads.</td></tr><tr><td>Fix</td><td><em>The (email) SM Access Request Link redirects to App Designer if the user is already registered to App Designer.</em><br>The SM access request link was suffixed with '/Home/Admin' to prevent unintended redirects.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Stream Host

<table><thead><tr><th width="158">Change Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Feature</td><td><p>Stream Host optimizations are complete, ensuring more reliable orchestration of data streams and interactions such as publish, unpublish, sync with Data Stream Designer, and handling network disconnections. </p><p></p><p>Although these improvements apply to both the rewritten core (Luigi) and the legacy core, to maximize the benefits of these optimizations, we highly recommend transitioning to the Luigi core. </p><p></p><p>The Luigi core has transitioned out of it's beta phase (<a href="archived/v4.3.9.md#stream-hosts">v4.3.9</a>) and is now the recommended Stream Host core as of this release (v4.3.14).</p><p></p><p>Additionally, the <a href="../installation/3.-complete-installation/configure-logging-optional.md#stream-hosts">Stream Host Logging to File</a> section has been updated to accommodate changes in specifying the destination for log files.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Enhancement</td><td>The console output is colorized and formatted for readability, as well as more detail.</td></tr></tbody></table>
